---
layout: post
title:  "Design Part II"
date:   2015-12-30 17:24:00
theme:	orange
---
While writing this I just published my first 2 blog posts. I shared it trough my Facebook and Twitter account and got a lot of positive feedback, I have awesome friends :). But as I said in the closing paragraph of my last post, there is still some design work to do. since I only covered the basics in the previous post.

##What did I miss
In this fase of the design work I took a critical look at what still needs to be worked out to finish the design of the blog. Most likely I might forget a few things, but those will be solved when I encounter them.

##Identity
Till this point there is hardly any identity connected with this blog, just bright colors and plain text. To give it a bit more personality I had to think about a few things that might give it a bit more personallity. 

The first thing that came to mind when thinking about identity was a title, something that explains what I'm talking about without sounding to serious. This was actually easier then I thought at first. I came up with the title 'a Work in Progress' as I'm building it while writing this. If only all things where as easy. 

Another thing you see on almost every website is a logo, yet the thoughts and skills that go into making a good one are far beyond my skillset. Still a logo is a very important part of your branding, and a website would not be complete without it. But first lets investigate the function...

##Images

##Landing/Home-page
At the moment the amount of articles is very limited, including this post I'm at a wopping total of 3.

##Navigation

##Social involvement
*	sharing functions
*	disqus


##Code snippets