---
layout: post
title:  "Design"
date:   2015-11-25 17:24:00
theme:	violet
---
As I stated in the first part of this series I’m not a designer and although I know what I like I simply don’t know a thing about the design process. Still I want to give designing something myself a try for this blog, as it’s good to understand why some design decisions are made, and get a better perspective of what developers run into while transforming a design into a website.

##Content
A great best practice you often find online is to work content first. This means you start with thinking about all the content you want to show your visitors. If you are for example making a site to share recipes it would be very smart to start by working out one or more full recipes and picking images to go with it. The advantage of doing it this way is that you know all the content you will have available when building the site. Often in my work I'll get a design that is build up with filler texts and stock photos. This might make for a pretty design but when eventually the client fills the site using a content management system results might not be as expected. When replacing stock photos by some shots from the client the whole look and feel might be a bit off as colors don’t match as well. Also the titles in an overview might need more than one line giving weird word breaks especially if you combine that with the length that some words might have. In my native language (Dutch) it’s mandatory to combine words without spaces, for example ‘Disability insurance’ would translate to ‘Arbeidsongeschiktheidsverzekering’ although a rather long example you might understand that this will break very different than for example the often used line ‘Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet’.

##Fonts
Font usage might be one of the most important decisions you’ll have to make while designing a webpage. A font that doesn’t read well might be the cause of many discomforts of your visitors. Reading around on the web I worked myself through a lot of blog posts talking about kerning, letter spacing and font styles. As I tried working out a good pairing using the pairing function of Google fonts I could not come to a pick that I felt comfortable with. Luckily I came across a nice post by [Caleb McGuire][caleb-mcguire-blog] that worked out 10 nice pairings for me to pick from. So I went with the combination of ‘Cantarell’ for normal and small headers and ‘Fjalla One’ for the page title.

##Colors
Personally I’m a huge fan of bright colors, the brighter the better. But to avoid ending up with a bombastic combination of colors I decided to search the web for good color combinations for my blog. I started off with a nice article about color psychology by [Jeremy Smith][jeremy-smith-colors] where in he explains what effect specific colors have on the reader. Although it didn’t help me much with the decisions I have to make about what color to use it did get me some suggestions like using lots of white to keep a nice and clean page. Next stop was the [Material Design site][material-design] Google published mid 2014, Like I said before I like bright colors and it seems Google has the same opinion :) So I decided to work out the following color scheme. A white background with a dark gray text (#444). with headings in a bright color (orange, magnta, green, blue, you know the kind). That same color will also be used as the background color of the header of the page where the title of the page will be written in white.

##Prototyping
Although I know my way around Photoshop enough to make a simple design, I rather work out a prototype with some simple HTML/CSS. The advantage being that it’s to easy to check what an element does on any resolution, but yet you have to be careful not to get lost on details. Like a sculpter you start off with creating a raw shape and after that you keep adding bits of detail layer by layer. You do this to avoid putting to much focus on one thing which might trigger you to add a lot of detail to other parts as well because otherwise it looks weird. Another trick you can use is fake some of the elements maybe just use an image of a button instead of a fully styled button. Just remember the prototype is not the final product, it's simply a tool to work out a design and catch some issues before you are making the final site.

Depending on when you are reading this most of the things you read in this article should be applied to page already, this is because I'm building the blog while writing this article. But to avoid this article getting to long I decided to do another blog post about design, which should be online somewhere next month.

Greetings Arjen

[caleb-mcguire-blog]:      	http://www.mrmcguire.com/10-useful-google-font-combinations-for-your-next-site/
[jeremy-smith-colors]: 		https://blog.kissmetrics.com/psychology-of-color-and-conversions/
[material-design]:			https://www.google.com/design/spec/style/color.html
